Docs11702/agent metrics filtering (#30892)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/guide/agent-filtering-for-dogstatsd-custom-metrics.md

---
title: Agent-Side Filtering for DogStatsD Custom Metrics 
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/metrics/custom_metrics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Custom Metrics"
- link: "/account_management/billing/custom_metrics/?tab=countrate"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Custom Metrics Billing"
- link: "/metrics/metrics-without-limits/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Metrics without Limits™"
- link: "/metrics/volume/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Metrics Volume Management"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/custom-metrics-governance/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Best practices for end-to-end custom metrics governance"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/" btn_hidden="true" header="false" >}}
Agent-side filtering for DogStatsD custom metrics is in Preview.
{{< /callout >}} 

## Overview

> Agent-side filtering enables you to block unused or unwanted DogStatsD custom metrics directly at the Datadog Agent, before sending them to Datadog. This can significantly reduce both indexed and ingested custom metric volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent-side filtering enables you to filter out unused or unwanted DogStatsD custom metrics directly at the Datadog Agent, before sending them to Datadog. This can significantly reduce both indexed and ingested custom metric volume.
```

> Filtering is performed at the Agent level but centrally managed through the Datadog UI, giving teams full visibility and control. You can cigure, update, and manage filtering policies in Datadog, streamlining metric governance while maintaining transparency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filtering is performed at the Agent level but centrally managed through the Datadog UI, giving teams full visibility and control. You can create, update, and manage filtering policies in Datadog, streamlining metric governance while maintaining transparency.
```

<Insert video>

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Viewing a policy and list of metric names

To view policies you can either:

**Click on the [settings button][1]**: 

{{< img src="metrics/guide/agent_filtering_for_dogstatsd_custom_metrics/settings_from_summary.png" alt="" caption="The settings button on the metric summary page" style="width:100%;" >}}

**Click on Metrics in the navigation bar** and go straight to settings:
{{< img src="metrics/guide/agent_filtering_for_dogstatsd_custom_metrics/settings_from_nav.png" alt="" caption="The settings option from the expanded Metrics panel in Datadog" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Deleting a policy

To delete a policy:

1. Navigate to the [Policy Settings][1] page.
2. Click on the desired policy.
3. Select **Delete** in the top-right corner of the page.
**Click on Metrics in the navigation bar** and go straight to settings:

{{< img src="metrics/guide/agent_filtering_for_dogstatsd_custom_metrics/delete_policy.png" alt="" caption="The delete policy button on a policy detail view" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Preview limitations

This initial preview release includes the following limitations:

> - A maximum of 10,000 metric names can be blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A maximum of 10,000 metric names can be filtered out.
```
